Initial commit of sympa role (#3)
stuvusIT/sympa: README.md

|:----------|:------------------:|:----------------------------------------------|
| `name`    | :heavy_check_mark: | Name of the auth option like ldap, user_table |
| `options` | :heavy_check_mark: | Dict of options for the auth method           |

Example

```yaml
sympa_auth:
  - name: ldap
    options:
    host: ldap.example.com:636
      timeout: 20
      suffix: yoursuffix
      bind_dn: yourbinddn
      bind_password: yourpw
      use_tls: ldaps
      ca_verify: none
      get_dn_by_uid_filter: "(uid=[sender])"
      email_attribute: mail
      scope: sub
      authentication_info_url: https://example.com
  - name: user_table
    options:
      regexp: ".*"
```

### Topic Variables

List of topics under the key `sympa_topics`
Each list entry contains the following

| Name    | Required/Default   | Description |
|:--------|:------------------:|:------------|
| `path`  | :heavy_check_mark: |     Path of the category        |
| `title` | :heavy_check_mark: |     Title of the category        |

Example

```yaml
sympa_topics:
  - path: art
    title: Art
  - path: art/expressionism
    title: Expressionism
```

> ### Sympa Variables

Reviewer: A Sympa documentation already exists, please link to it.

In general, I don't like the idea of maintaining a separate documentation of already documented technology, because we'd have to keep this up to date.

Author: sympa is not really developt and their documentation is spotty or outright wrong so I think a documentation that fits this role should be enough

Reviewer 2: In my opinion a general _ansible way_ documentation is required, but please also add a link to the original documentation, this helps in case you need to lookup some detailed information about an option.

Reviewer: > In my opinion a general _ansible way_ documentation is required

Can you please link to a resource explaining what an _ansible way_ documentation is?

If there are mistakes in the official Sympa documentation, then it's way more important to correct these individual mistakes here instead of trying to provide a generic documentation. (Also, otherwise people would assume that the `README` is wrong after reading both.) Configuration management doesn't have the task to document existing projects but to deploy them. Therefore I think that your understanding that this is the _ansible way_ of doing it is wrong. Also, I don't think that the Ansible developers themselves encourge this kind of way since they don't have any examples or encouragement of re-documenting existing projects in the Ansible documentation.

| `sympa_gecos`                              | `SYMPA`                                                                                                               | Gecos for service mail sent by Sympa itself.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `sympa_process_archive`                    | `"off"`                                                                                                               | Store distributed messages into archive                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

> | `sympa_voot_feature`                       | `"off"`                                                                                                               | Voot Feature                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `sympa_voot_feature`                       | `False`                                                                                                               | Voot Feature                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
```

| `sympa_sendmail`                           | `/usr/bin/sendmail`                                                                                                   | Path to the MTA (sendmail, postfix, exim or qmail)  should point to a sendmail-compatible binary (eg: a binary named "sendmail"  is distributed with Postfix)                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `sympa_maxsmtp`                            | `40`                                                                                                                  | Max. number of Sendmail processes (launched by Sympa) running                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |

> | `sympa_log_smtp`                           | `"off"`                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `sympa_log_smtp`                           | `False`                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
```

| `sympa_rfc2369_header_fields`              | `[help, subscribe, unsubscribe, post, owner, archive ]`                                                               | Specify which rfc2369 mailing list headers to add                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `sympa_remove_headers`                     | [ `X-Sympa-To, X-Family-To, Return-Receipt-To, Precedence, X-Sequence, Disposition, Notification-To, Sender ]`        | Specify header fields to be removed before message distribution                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

> | `sympa_reject_mail_from_automates_feature` | `"on"`                                                                                                                | Reject mail from automates (crontab, etc) sent to a list?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `sympa_reject_mail_from_automates_feature` | `True`                                                                                                                | Reject mail from automates (crontab, etc) sent to a list?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
```

| `sympa_default_list_priority`              | `5`                                                                                                                   | Default priority for list messages                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `sympa_parsed_family_files`                | `[message.footer, message.header, message.footer.mome, message.header.mime, info ]`                                   | list of files that will be parsed by Sympa when  instantiating a family (no space allowed in file names)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

> | `sympa_dkim_feature`                       | `"off"`                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `sympa_dkim_feature`                       | `False`                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
```

# sympa
This is an Ansible role which sets up a sympa

## Requirements

> Debian or Ubuntu

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Debian or Ubuntu with a webserver that serves the sympa web app and a mysql database for it.
```

> A webserver that serves the sympa web app and a mysql database for it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

## Role Variables

For the full documentation see https://sympa-community.github.io/, this was tested with Sympa Version 6.2.16

### Auth Variables

> `sympa_auth` list of auth methods used in order.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`sympa_auth` is list of auth methods used in order.
```

> each entry contains

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each entry consists of the following:
```

| Name      | Required/Default   | Description                                   |
|:----------|:------------------:|:----------------------------------------------|
| `name`    | :heavy_check_mark: | Name of the auth option like ldap, user_table |
| `options` | :heavy_check_mark: | Dict of options for the auth method           |

> Example

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Example
```

```yaml
sympa_auth:
  - name: ldap
    options:
      host: ldap.example.com:636
      timeout: 20
      suffix: yoursuffix
      bind_dn: yourbinddn
      bind_password: yourpw
      use_tls: ldaps
      ca_verify: none
      get_dn_by_uid_filter: "(uid=[sender])"
      email_attribute: mail
      scope: sub
      authentication_info_url: https://example.com
  - name: user_table
    options:
      regexp: ".*"
```

### Topic Variables

> List of topics under the key `sympa_topics`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
List of topics under the key `sympa_topics`.
```

> Each list entry contains the following

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each list entry contains the following:
```

| Name    | Required/Default   | Description           |
|:--------|:------------------:|:----------------------|
| `path`  | :heavy_check_mark: | Path of the category  |
| `title` | :heavy_check_mark: | Title of the category |

> Example

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Example
```

| `sympa_db_host`                            | `localhost`                                                                                                           | Hostname of the database server                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `sympa_db_port`                            | `3306`                                                                                                                | Port of the database server                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |

> | `sympa_db_user`                            | `sympa`                                                                                                               | User for the database connection  User for the database connection  User for the database connection                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `sympa_db_user`                            | `sympa`                                                                                                               | User for the database connection                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
```

| `sympa_max_wrong_password`                 | `19`                                                                                                                  | Amount of wrong password tries                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `sympa_static_content_path`                | `/var/lib/sympa/static_content`                                                                                       | Directory for storing static contents                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

> | `sympa_static_content_url`                 | `/static-sympa`                                                                                                       | URL mapped with the static_content_path directory defined above                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `sympa_static_content_url`                 | `/static-sympa`                                                                                                       | URL mapped with the `sympa_static_content_path` directory                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
```

| `sympa_maxsmtp`                            | `40`                                                                                                                  | Max. number of Sendmail processes (launched by Sympa) running                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `sympa_log_smtp`                           | `"off"`                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

> | `sympa_use_blacklist`                      | `[ send, create_list ]`                                                                                               | list of operations for which blacklist filter is applied  Setting this parameter to "none" will hide the blacklist feature                                                                                                                                                                                                               |

Reviewer 3: `none` is not possible with the role. I would remove the sentence and set the value in jinja if the list is empty.
```suggestion
| `sympa_use_blacklist`                      | `[ send, create_list ]`                                                                                               | List of operations for which blacklist filter is applied . An empty list will disable the feature.                                                                                                                                                |
```

| `sympa_spool`                              | `/var/spool/sympa`                                                                                                    | Directory containing various specialized spools                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `sympa_queue`                              | `/var/spool/sympa/msg`                                                                                                | Directory for message incoming spool                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

> | `sympa_queuemod`                           | `/var/spool/sympa/moderation`                                                                                         | Directory for moderation spool                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

Reviewer 3: It would be nice if the role also created these directories. Otherwise I don't see a great benefit in leaving it configurable.

| `sympa_dkim_feature`                       | `"off"`                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `sympa_dkim_add_signature_to`              | `[ robot, list ]`                                                                                                     | Insert a DKIM signature to message from the robot, from the list or both                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

> | `sympa_dkim_signature_apply_on`            | `[md5_authenticated_messages, smime_authenticated_messages, dkim_authenticated_messages, editor_validated_messages ]` | Type of message that is added a DKIM signature before distribution to  subscribers. Possible values are "none", "any" or a list of the following  keywords: "md5_authenticated_messages", "smime_authenticated_messages",  "dkim_authenticated_messages", "editor_validated_messages".                                                   |

Reviewer 3: `none` and `all` are not possible with the role.
For `none` see my other comment, for `all` I don't think there is a way except for the user filling the list with the possible values. In that case I would remove the `all` option from the description.
```suggestion
| `sympa_dkim_signature_apply_on`            | `[md5_authenticated_messages, smime_authenticated_messages, dkim_authenticated_messages, editor_validated_messages ]` | Type of message that gets a DKIM signature added before distribution to subscribers. It is a list of the following  keywords: "md5_authenticated_messages", "smime_authenticated_messages",  "dkim_authenticated_messages", "editor_validated_messages".                                                   |
```

| `sympa_antispam_tag_header_spam_regexp`    | :heavy_multiplication_x:                                                                                              | Regexp applied on this header to verify message is a spam (example Yes)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `sympa_antispam_tag_header_ham_regexp`     | :heavy_multiplication_x:                                                                                              | Regexp applied on this header to verify message is NOT a spam (example No)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |

> | `sympa_spam_status`                        |                                                                                                                       | Messages are supposed to be filtered by an antispam that add one more  headers to messages. This parameter is used to select a special scenario in  order to decide the message spam status: ham, spam or unsure. This  parameter replace antispam_tag_header_name, antispam_tag_header_spam_regexp  and antispam_tag_header_ham_regexp. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `sympa_spam_status`                        |                            :heavy_multiplication_x:                                                                                           | Messages are supposed to be filtered by an antispam that add one more  headers to messages. This parameter is used to select a special scenario in  order to decide the message spam status: ham, spam or unsure. This  parameter replace antispam_tag_header_name, antispam_tag_header_spam_regexp  and antispam_tag_header_ham_regexp. |
```

# sympa
This is an Ansible role which sets up a sympa

## Requirements

Debian or Ubuntu

> A webserver that servers the sympa web app and a database for the web app.

Reviewer 3: *serves
```suggestion
A webserver that serves the sympa web app and a database for it.
```

## Role Variables

For the full documentation see https://sympa-community.github.io/, this was tested with Sympa Version 6.2.16

### Auth Variables

`sympa_auth` list of auth methods used in order.
each entry contains

| Name      | Required/Default   | Description                                   |
|:----------|:------------------:|:----------------------------------------------|
| `name`    | :heavy_check_mark: | Name of the auth option like ldap, user_table |
| `options` | :heavy_check_mark: | Dict of options for the auth method           |

Example

```yaml
sympa_auth:
  - name: ldap
    options:

>     host: ldap.example.com:636

Reviewer 3: I think you meant to indent this part until line 42

      timeout: 20
      suffix: yoursuffix
      bind_dn: yourbinddn
      bind_password: yourpw
      use_tls: ldaps
      ca_verify: none
      get_dn_by_uid_filter: "(uid=[sender])"
      email_attribute: mail
      scope: sub
      authentication_info_url: https://example.com
  - name: user_table
    options:
      regexp: ".*"
```

### Topic Variables

List of topics under the key `sympa_topics`
Each list entry contains the following

| Name    | Required/Default   | Description |
|:--------|:------------------:|:------------|

> | `path`  | :heavy_check_mark: |     Path of the category        |

Reviewer 3: Please indent the table consistently

| `sympa_listmaster`                         | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                                                    | List of email address to promote to listmaster                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `sympa_wwsympa_url`                        | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                                                    | URL of main Web page                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

> | `sympa_email`                              | :heavy_multiplication_x:                                                                                              | Local par of sympa email address                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer 3: What is par?
Maybe you meant "part"?
```suggestion
| `sympa_email`                              | :heavy_multiplication_x:                                                                                              | Local part of sympa email address                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
```

| `sympa_db_password`                        | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                                                    | Password for the database connection                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

> | `sympa_db_type`                            | `mysql`                                                                                                               | Type of the database (mysql,Pg,Oracl,Sybase,SQLite)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `sympa_db_type`                            | `mysql`                                                                                                               | Type of the database (`mysql`,`Pg`,`Oracle`,`Sybase`,`SQLite`)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
```

| `sympa_logo_html_definition`               | :heavy_multiplication_x:                                                                                              | HTML snippet to place logo in upper left corner                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `sympa_gecos`                              | `SYMPA`                                                                                                               | Gecos for service mail sent by Sympa itself.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

> | `sympa_process_archive`                    | `"off"`                                                                                                               | Store distributed messages into archive                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer 3: Why is this a string and not a boolean flag? If only `on` and `off` are possible, this should be abstracted using Ansible. Same for other variables.
```suggestion
| `sympa_process_archive`                    | `False`                                                                                                               | Store distributed messages into archive                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
```

| `sympa_maxsmtp`                            | `40`                                                                                                                  | Max. number of Sendmail processes (launched by Sympa) running                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `sympa_log_smtp`                           | `"off"`                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

> | `sympa_use_blacklist`                      | `[ send, create_list ]`                                                                                               | comma separated list of operations for which blacklist filter is applied  Setting this parameter to "none" will hide the blacklist feature                                                                                                                                                                                               |

Reviewer 3: Why comma-seperated if Ansible supports lists and the `join` filter?

| `sympa_max_size`                           | `5242880`                                                                                                             | Default maximum size (in bytes) for messages (can be re-defined for each  list)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

> | `sympa_sendmail_nrcpt`                     | `25`                                                                                                                  | Maximum number of recipients per call to Sendmail. The nrcpt_by_domain.conf  file allows a different tuning per destination domain.                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

Reviewer 3: Which options will be inserted in the mentioned config file, using Ansible?

| `sympa_owner_priority`                     | `9`                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `sympa_default_list_priority`              | `5`                                                                                                                   | Default priority for list messages                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

> | `sympa_parsed_family_files`                | `[message.footer, message.header, message.footer.mome, message.header.mime, info ]`                                   | comma-separated list of files that will be parsed by Sympa when  instantiating a family (no space allowed in file names)                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

Reviewer 3: Why comma-seperated if Ansible supports lists and the `join` filter?
